i photo people I'm Ali and I'm Lizzy and
we're the photo sisters today we're
gonna show you how to clean your sensor
and a really really big disclaimer
cleaning your sensor is serious stuff
so you want to exercise extreme caution
when doing this we are not liable for
anything that might go wrong there's a
reason why people charge good money to
professionally clean your sensor but I
know that it's really tempting to try to
do it yourself so I'm just gonna share
with you how I clean my sensor and again
do this is very very very carefully and
use it at your own risk because if you
scratch your sensor or get something on
it or ruin it you're looking at a pretty
hefty repair so use this with caution
and Ally why don't you go ahead and show
them the tool that I use so this is a
sensor cleaner you can see the brand
name up there Gio Gio is your toast your
toast giotto's jocose Chiodos rocket air
and I bought this on Amazon I'll link to
it below
it's pretty big it weighs 70 grams and
this was the large size they had like a
smaller size this is 7.5 by 2 point 4
inches it has the info on the back I
don't have this memory so yes this is
what I used to clean my sensor they have
different sorts of kits out there I know
sometimes people get swabs and that sort
of stuff
so feel free to experiment but again you
want to be extremely careful when you're
doing this so first and foremost when
you decide to clean your sensor you need
to do it in a very very very still calm
environment it's not with your kids
running around and definitely never
outside yeah - outside and you want to
make sure that you have your ceiling fan
turned off your windows closed you don't
want any sort of air movement you want
to make sure that it's clear of dust and
yeah you have to be very careful I'm I'm
pretty nervous to show you right now but
I will anyways I hope it doesn't
backfire I'll open it now things you
don't want to use this for moms this is
not a huge booger stuff
so it looks like and it's not a toilet
to give you a four year old even though
I know if mine were here he'd be like
give me that so hide it don't show
anyone
definitely so always keep care of your
items this is not brand new Lizzy just
keeps it in the container I do
keeps it super good so we'll never break
her camera
she uses it correctly yes okay so you're
going to okay Lego said use this at your
own risk but you're gonna have to turn
your camera on so make sure there's a
battery in it oh by the way you can use
this to like clean the dust off of your
lens or your keyboard and you can use
this to dust anything it tells you there
you go it's it's like an ear hand but
just not as hard and it looks like a
rocket whoa look at that rocket air okay
so okay so you're going to go into the
menu on your camera and you're going to
find some sort of item that's called
sensor cleaning or mirror lock-up and
telling you it's pretty serious stuff so
I'm gonna scroll down on my camera it's
called sensor cleaning and I'm going to
do clean manually if you have an
automatic built-in sensor cleaner clean
manually and then I'm going to well it's
it's telling me right now this message
it might be flip-flops for you so I'll
read what it says it says mirror will
lock up after manually cleaning sensor
turn power switch to off okay so here we
go the shutter is open
keeping your camera on you're gonna face
your camera down you're going to take
your lens off and then I'm going to take
my rocket launcher and I'm gonna just
chuck some air in there keep your camera
pointing down oh this is nervous making
you nervous let's back on and then
you're gonna turn it off ah
who think it might escape that one so
you want to make sure you're using the
lock-up feature on your camera and
that's gonna be the same for if you're
using the swabs or the rocket launcher
air blower whatever it's called now
Lizzy how often should I clean my sensor
well you know this depends some people
like to do it once a week or sometimes
even after every photo shoot because you
might notice when you're looking in here
you might see some fecals in there when
you're taking pictures you might see a
dust particle on your pictures so if you
notice you're getting a dust particle in
your images or if you're seeing a lot of
stuff when you're looking through your
viewfinder that definitely means you
need to clean your sensor again be very
careful or pay to get it professionally
cleaned there's a reason why people do
that but it's really just a matter of
choice
I myself only really do it if I'm
noticing a lot of spots in here I only
noticed dust on my images maybe once or
twice so it's not something that I see
often but you want to make sure that
you're always changing your lenses
properly if you don't know how to change
it once properly we have a link below in
the down box so yeah you just want to
make sure you're keeping your sensor
nice and clean make sure that you do
this when you have nobody running around
and no sort of big commotion going on in
the background because the last thing
you want is to catch up stain or
something on your sensor and then you
get nervous people like me that like
shake when they do it but so yeah just
be careful be very careful with it but
everybody likes the clean sensor good
info yes
watching China or other videos bye bye